# DIF Technical Steering Committee - meeting minutes


_This is a Technical Steering Committee call. Only active members of the TSC (as described in the Operating Addendum extension) and invited guests shall attend the meeting._

_For this call, you are encouraged to turn your video on. This is a good way to build rapport given we are a large, disparate group experiencing a lot of churn._

_The term "WG" stands for Working Group_

## Meeting (#17) - 27 July 2022 - (1300 ET)

### present: Daniel M, Brent, Troy, Juan, Kaliya, Sam, Oliver, Martin, Limari, Chris, Paul
- DIF Updates
    - Two new Community Calls
        - New member Orientation calls and Feedback calls
    - Organizational changes
        - Review of Chair lists (mailing lists, Website etc.)
    - Community Feedback - hard to tell which groups are active
        - How to treat inactive groups (how to identify and make it obvious, Github, Website, Mailing Lists etc.)
        - KERI is one obvious group, it is a part of I&D for ongong work (as a work item)
    - Wallet Security needs a new chair 
        - Chair turnover - how do we get early warning and a consistent process to apply (Chair Guide)
    - ### TSC Election ###
        - ### Congratulations Daniel McGrogan - new chair üöÄ !! ###
    - DIDComm Ratification - process complete and spec updated

- #### New Business agenda items ####

    - Presentation Exchange Spec
        - Discussion on if there is any user feedback on anything that needs to change about the registry process
        -  Feedback that a major trade org is having to store libraries to be able to retain all of their registries
        

## Meeting (#16) - 22 June 2022 - (1300 ET)

### present: Troy, Daniel M, Steve, Sam, Markus, Limari, Chris, Paul
- DIF Updates
    - TSC Election - nominations are open (each WG to nominate one candidate) - simply email nominations your prefered candidate and your WG.
    - GitHub permissions, removing Admin users this week and facilitating access at a WG Chair level (currently maintainer - please advise if you need Admin access)
- New Business agenda items
    - DIDComm ratification?
    - pres-ex registry thoughts?
 
## Meeting (#15) - 25 May 2022 - (1300 ET)

### present: Troy, Brent, Daniel M, Markus, Kaliya, Juan, Limari, Chris, Paul

- DIF Updates
    - Welcome to Limari Navarette, DIF's new Community Manager
    - APAC/ASEAN call now a joint DIF & ToIP initative, launches 26th May 2022
    - Github templates
        - Background and updates from last meeting [in this PR](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/org/pull/17/files)
        - [Template for registry work items](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/template-for-registry-workitems)
        - [Template for profile work items](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/template-for-profile-workitems)
        - Onboarding process has been updated
        - Github owner permissions - proposed WG level for admin
     - TSC Election
         - Scheduled for July, can nominate now (including self nomination) -> [nominations@identity.foundation](mailto:nominations@identity.foundation)
         - Voting in July, one vote per WG/SIG etc.
         - Process to be discussed and added to [TSC Chair Guidelines](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/org/blob/master/chair_guidelines.md#-procedural-considerations) 

- Ongoing registries discussion
    - Process covered in Work Items List markdown in DIF Org repository 
    - [Template for registry work items](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/template-for-registry-workitems)
    - Will follow up next meeting to see if any use cases exist for Live Docs requirement


## Meeting (#14) - 12 May 2022 - (1300 ET)

### present: Sam C, Juan, Troy, Daniel B, Daniel M, Steve, Markus, Brent, Chris, Paul

- DIF Updates
- Github Access discussion
    - *Is a process required ?*
    - An Audit be completed ASAP to highlight access issues (current WG Chairs without access etc.)
    - Updated onboarding and offboarding process in Chair guides
    - Standardise repo layouts (CODEOWNERS etc.)
    - Fix Sam's access ASAP
- Registries discussion
    - Things to be transparent about: ready-for-use, prod-ready, etc
    - DIF Registries are not an endorsement
    - What is the process to update and any governance for this documentation ?
    - Guard rails for governence to be defined by TSC to ensure clarity on when to obtain approval (*DIF approves xxx*)
    - DIDComm Org is a good example of what good might look like 
    - How do we control recommendations to remain unbiased - these things exist versus these things are good
    - How do we determine which repositiories are able to have non-DIF members contribute (PRs etc.) )
    - **More discussion in next TSC meeting - cover live-docs also**

- TSC Chair - election process and timing
    - async update, formal process in next meeting

## Meeting - 24 November 2021 - (1300 ET)

### present: Kaliya, Kyle, Juan, Sam, Brent, Troy, Paul, Dmitri, Rouven, Chris, Balazs

- DIF updates 
- Profiles discussion
    - if its a subset of specs - then its easy to manage
    - they could live under one group - that can be the introp group itself
    - Having a clear definition of a profile is useful to decide if it is/needs to be covered by IPR
        - defines new ideas, then its not an introp profile but a work item to be IPR protected (and refined)
        - if its NOT defining new ideas, ie it only uses subsets of specs, then its interop profile
    -   How to accept such proposals?
        -   They do not technically need IPR protection (they are not specs)¬† if they are truly ‚Äúprofiles‚Äù in classical sense ([example](https://www.nist.gov/system/files/documents/2018/06/25/draft_interoperability_profile_description_final.pdf))
        -   Divert/branch-out/export work that crosses over into upstream proposals and new specifications
    -   Does the TSC need to review the profiles before DIF accepts it?¬†
        -   TSC help decide whether something needs IPR/is a pure profile IF THERE IS A DISPUTE
    -   Who maintains these profiles? What should be the ask?¬†
        -   Interop WG if true profiles, specific WGs if includes specification work (or relates just to the specific WG)?
    -   Should the WG that wants it adopt it?
        -   Default to Interop WG?
    -   What should be the process?
        -   Interop WG first port of call if spans multiple WG scopes
            -   Make sure upstream suggestions and PRs and iterations move to their upstream venues, whichever DIF WG the work happens in...
        -   Put it on the TSC agenda if two groups want it, or donors/initiators are uncomfortable with IPR boundaries, etc
    -   How relate to profiles articulated elsewhere? CCG has SVIP profile (VC-API) and TOIP had the TIPs‚Ä¶
        -   Sam: DIF is a good place to collate/donate them...
- [Chair Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12_kr9auwOtLXX3YbIp3yVhGQAhZ_BIUF3u_D7HOVIV4/edit#heading=h.pygt7f46dcl9)
- DIF Discord
    - Testing with DIDcomm User Group (Sam) for now
    - Proposed to have tooling maybe for matrix
    - Should DIF listen to its users and make sure that the tools DIF uses is supported by the community? 
- F2F timing - shortly discussed,
    - 26th Jan¬†   
    - 23rd Feb




## Meeting - 22 September 2021 - (1300 ET)

## Present
- Troy R, Alen H, Martin R, Bernt Z, Daniel M, Daniel B, Dmitri Z, Sam C, Markus S,
- _invited: Balazs N, Chris K, Juan C,_

### Agenda

* A reminder of the upcoming IIW conference
* [Discuss the language to clarify participation and voting mechanism](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/TSC/pull/1) 
* Work item donation discussion
    * Who can donate?
    * What can be donated?
    * Would DIF just accept any work item, or there is a review process?
    * Accepting donation can be liberal, but the donor should align first with the similar work item (or WG) before attempting to donate
* Who makes the final decision to donate?
    * TSC might be the place to review planned donations
        * Including encouraging the donor to align with similar work items already in DIF before donation happens
* What are Interop profiles?
    * DIF values should represent "umbrella" and not selecting certain technologies
    * Interop Profiles might not affect IPR related questions
* WG chair note-taking practices
    * if WG chairs have a hard time to lead and take notes, they should consider collaborating with the community
* In case of chairs failing to adhere to their responsibilities
    * Chairs in this situation can ask for support/tips from chairs of other WGs
    * Notification to be sent to the chairs reminding them of their duties, or their chair roles will be withdrawn and the group will elect new chairs



## Meeting - 26 August 2021 - (1300 ET)

### Present
*  Brent, Daniel, Kaliya, Rouven, Troy, Oliver, Sam C, + Balazs 

### Agenda
* Who's in the SC?* 
    * Proposal: 
        * Each Working Group chair is also automatically a member of the TSC. However, decision-making within the TSC is limited to **one vote per WG**. This way each WG can weigh in on all topics, and all WGs receive the same level of representation.
        * Each WG is requested to send at least one chair to each TSC meeting. This is to ensure information continuity and decision-making power for the group.
        * About the WG chair's representation role. 
        * Is the chair represents her/his opinion or the WG's? 
        * It represents Personal + Company + WG's 
    * Chairs of the WGs are empowered to make certain decisions. If the decisions are not according to the WG it can replace them. 
    * Next steps:
        *  wording to the final proposal with a focus on: 
        *  Who get‚Äôs the vote? -- in case of conflict

* Website updates.
    * Simplified WG page update mechanism 

* Use GitHub (Issues) and interactions for decision making 
    * Pros and Cons discusses. 
    * Decisions to be public


## Meeting - 28 July 2021 - (1300 ET)

### Agenda
- Troy is supported to be the TSC chair
- review deadline: 
    - high number of open work-items
    - auto/archiving or passive archiving
    - urgency is still there but it allows groups to let work not prioritized to not go to archive state
    - archived is not abandoned
    - One thing we could do: best estimate for finishing the work 
        - what the hammer looks like?
    - if no point at all, then it is not a motivating factor
    - If you miss the deadline to reapply for a new one
    - w3c hammer is harsh
    - Let's change abandoned to archived 
        - file an anticipated review/completion date
    - Project page  - but it is not really accountable 
        - send email to tsc when new work item starts
        - 6 monthly house keeping of code and specs
- PDF - save the whole directory 
    - Daniel get's a date to each


## Meeting - 7 July 2021 - (1300 ET)

### Agenda

1. Who are part of the TSC (with voting rights)
    - 1 vote per [IPR-protected] WG?
    - TSC chair** over email**? 
    - 1 week nomination deadline?
2. Are we ready to organize a next F2F Virtual event (eg on the Wed 1st or Tue 7th of September?)
    - reminder 12-14 Oct is IIW
        - it might be good to have it a month in advance 
    - Labour day (6th Sept) - followed by first day of school/work for Autumn
    - Sept - 14th / 15th - **continue over email**
3. Decision on ‚ÄúAcknowledgments‚Äù in Specs.
    - next step: add to template? add to /org/ work item lifecycle document?
4. Timelines for Specs (work items) - finish discussion
    - punt til next meeting to structure with more concrete/specific questions for the group
5. Prepare chair onboarding page, what it should contain?
    - intended for incoming chairs, but open to the public (on website organizational section)
    - topics it should cover- best practices & requirements?
        - minutes?
        - chairchats - frequency, DIF infra
        - IPR requirements?
6. Universal Resolver service update (Markus)
    - dev/experimental (hosted by DIF); "stable" (hosted by IBM) could be stabler
        - casting around for other hosts - some volunteer companies in IDWG - weekly UR calls have refined this
        - arbitrary number of additional instances hosted by participants in UR program (linked from DIF's hosted version?)
        - listed known instances (on a dif hosted page)
            - differences could be captured between different implementations 
            - [Registry](https://github.com/peacekeeper/universal-resolver/blob/peacekeeper-hosting-info/docs/instances/instances.md) of UR instances?
            - DNS round robin approach - random.uniresolver.io points to any registered instance (but each running a different version or subset)
    - [PR](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/universal-resolver/pull/214
) is open if people have opinions!
    - Bal√°zs: posting the PR to Slack #general might get some unexpected voices... worth a shot?
    - to keep PR open for a few more weeks
8. W3C DID test suite hosting
    - https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/issues/135 <-- this 
    - stateless, no storage; no user-interface, JUST a service accepting endpoints and returning test results (REST?)
    - AWS K8S cluster could host this, minimal resource outlay or complexity
        - ID WG/Danube maintaining? Accept volunteers over time? 
        - did-test-suite.identity.foundation 
    - Oliver - if companies incorporate this test suite into their CI/CD, could this give people some kind of "green checkmark" or trustmark?
        - Markus: Importantly, this is a W3C test suite, maintained and governed there
        - further discussions at ID WG call(s) 
9. other topics?
    - re-think voting mechanisms at DIF +1
        12. (not in this group, only a heads up)
    - Sam: Does TSC decide moving WGs to other orgs?
        - SC 


## Meeting - 31 April 2021 - (1300 ET)

### Present
- Rouven, Charles, Daniel B, Daniel McGrogan, Dmitri, Juan, Kaliya, Markus, Martin, Oliver, Troy, Wayne, Balazs

### Agenda

- Universal Resolver: 
    - Governance and Hosting 
    - load balancing between different companies? 
    - Charles L. suggested an interesting approach to redirect non supported DID to an other UR that works
- DIDComm PeX
    - one WG influences an other group - potentially a discussion
    - DIDcomm is in charge to drive didcomm and its their requirement to plan
        - as long as it stays civil, Martin is ok to resolve in the group
    - Lets not use one WG an other as an influence
    - Daniel Hardman as invited expert?
- Wallet Security WG:
    - mostly about wallet assurance (this is secure, this is not)
    - less about interoperability
- Crypto WG
    - recovation?
    - crypto WG in DIF
    - to standardize/specifications around BBS+ and or revocations
    - Hyperledger still misses certain aspects 
- Who is on TSC
    - maybe one vote per chair
    - proposing names to have a chair (by email)
        - chair to be someone for a year
- Endorsement Topic discussion 
    - use DIF to endorse a tech in a juridistiction
    - is this something TSC would approve
- TSC mailing list

## Meeting - 31 March 2021 - (1300 ET)

### Agenda

- First TSC meeting: 
- Discussions: 
    - Certifications at DIF? 
        - Hosting some kind of conformance testing as part of Universal Resolver project could serve as a **‚ÄúSoft Certification‚Äù** of DID methods? 
            - A badge, a proof of testing that would run daily to check
        - **More explicit certification** based on multiple ongoing/public conformance tests?
            - DIF approved "rubric" to compare DID methods
        - People are generally supportive of some kind of testable/objective trustmark (partic if UR already does automated conformance testing)
            - caution about calling it DIF Certification
    - Formalizing donation process
        - governance of a repo once donated? when a repo gets as far as being a sample impl or ref impl, who decides on PRs? Just admins? Is DIF trying to host production code or just reference code?
            - OS vs foundation-governed
            - Contributor, leadership role on Work Item after its donation?
    - Escalation mechanism- if WG Chairs disagree about a PR or direction change, they could escalate to TSC
                    - unlikely to happen often,
        - minimum size? minimum members?
            - lower barrier to entry and get people generating new items in DIF?
            - more stringent on archiving stale items rather than raising barriers to starting new work items
        - 2 companies to start original work item?
            - does this fit the low barrier goal?
        - Work items can only be under Working Groups
            - WG chairs and group must approve the work item before it starts
                - this create an opportunity to champion the cause
